ALEC-228: Create Quick Start section (#97)
OpenNMS/alec: docs/modules/engines/pages/deeplearning.adoc

:imagesdir: ../assets/images
= Deep Learning Engine

> The Deep Learning engine is a xref:introduction.adoc[correlation engine] that uses a https://www.tensorflow.org/[TensorFlow] model to build alarm clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deep learning engine is a xref:introduction.adoc[correlation engine] that uses a https://www.tensorflow.org/[TensorFlow] model to build alarm clusters.
```

> It draws information from the locally-persisted network inventory graph; this graph is automatically created and maintained by ALEC, and is based upon information from the associated xref:datasources:overview.adoc[datasource].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It draws information from the locally persisted network inventory graph.
Alec automatically creates and maintains this graph, which is based on information from the associated xref:datasources:overview.adoc[datasource].
```

== TensorFlow

To create clusters using TensorFlow, ALEC first reduces the clustering calculation to a binary classification that asks, "Are these two alarms related?"

> When the Deep Learning engine determines that two or more alarms are related, they are added to a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the deep learning engine determines that two or more alarms are related, they are added to a cluster.
```

To reduce the computational complexity of these calculations, ALEC limits the search of potential active candidates to those that are nearby.

== Ludwig

> The current model definition for the Deep Learning engine has been developed using https://github.com/uber/ludwig[Ludwig]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current model definition for the deep learning engine has been developed using https://github.com/uber/ludwig[Ludwig]:
```

.Ludwig training example

> image::ludwig_training.png[Shell interface showing an example of training input and output for Ludwig, 600]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::ludwig_training.png[Shell interface that shows an example of training input and output for Ludwig, 600]
```

The model's input features include the following:

* Inventory object types (categorical)
* Relations between inventory objects (binary)
* Difference in time (numerical)
* Graphical distance (numerical)

See https://github.com/OpenNMS/alec/blob/master/engine/deeplearning/src/main/resources/ludwig_model.yaml[ludwig_model.yaml] on the project's GitHub for more information on the model definition.

== Train the engine

> The Deep Learning engine must be trained via the Karaf shell before it can be used to correlate alarms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deep learning engine must be trained via the Karaf shell before ALEC can use it to correlate alarms.
```

> WARNING: These instructions are included to help you get started with the engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: These instructions are included to help you get started with the engine.
```

They are by no means all-encompassing.
The training process will be improved in future ALEC releases.

=== Install shell commands

In the OpenNMS Karaf shell, run the following command to install the ALEC shell commands:

[source, karaf]
feature:install alec-features-deeplearning alec-features-shell

> === Vectorize datasets

Reviewer: dataset ... one or two words? We use two words below.

Author: I think we're leaning towards one word, but I initially started having it as two; I must've missed an instance below. Thanks for catching it!

Reviewer: TBH, I always forget. It's one I have to look up almost every time.

First, take a snapshot of the current state of the datasource:

[source, karaf]
opennms-alec:datasource-snapshot /tmp/snap1

Next, edit `/tmp/snap1/alec.situations.xml` in a text editor to configure your desired situation state.
Save your changes and return to the Karaf shell.

Run the following commands to build a vectorized representation of the snapshot:

[source, karaf]
----
opennms-alec:tensorflow-vectorize --alarms-in /tmp/snap1/alec.alarms.xml \
                                  --inventory-in /tmp/snap1/alec.inventory.xml \
                                  --situations-in /tmp/snap1/alec.situations.xml \
                                  --csv-out /tmp/snap1/alec.vector.dataset.csv
----

=== Train the model with Ludwig

Retrieve `model.yaml` from the source tree's `ludwig_model.yaml` file.

Run the following command to train the model using Ludwig:

[source, karaf]
----
ludwig train --data_csv /tmp/snap1/alec.vector.dataset.csv
             --model_definition_file model.yaml
----

=== Export the model

> Use the following script to export the trained model to a format that can be used in ALEC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following script to export the trained model to a format that ALEC can use:
```

mkdir -p /tmp/tf-export
cp -R ./export/* /tmp/tf-export/
cp results/experiment_run_0/model/model_hyperparameters.json /tmp/tf-export/
----

=== Use the model in ALEC

First, you must verify that the trained model can be loaded into ALEC:

[source, karaf]
opennms-alec:tensorflow-load-model /tmp/tf-export

NOTE: If the command results are negative, you must retrain and re-export the training model.

> If the command results are positive, you can then configure the Deep Learning engine to use the model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the command results are positive, you can then configure the deep learning engine to use the model:
```

[source, karaf]
----
config:edit org.opennms.alec.engine.deeplearning
property-set modelPath /tmp/tf-export
config:update
----

=== Verify using simulations

You can run simulations to verify that the training model clusters alerts as expected.

> First, use the following commands to generate situations based on the data set snapshot from earlier:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, use the following commands to generate situations based on the dataset snapshot from earlier:
```
dataset?
